+++
date = "2015-11-04T00:00:00"
title = "Bayesian Small Area Estimates of Prevalence and Self-reported Prevalence of Kidney Disease by United States County"
abstract = "**Background**: The prevalence of adult CKD in the US, estimated from 2005-2012 national survey data, is about 13%; however, those surveys are not designed to provide estimates for small regions. Applying a Bayesian multi-level model (BMLM), we estimated adult CKD prevalence in US counties using national and state surveys. **Methods**: Data on self-reported CKD and risk-factors were obtained from (i) the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES 2005-2012; n=20,831), and (ii) the Behavior Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS 2011; n=506,467); NHANES also provided CKD laboratory data. CKD was defined as estimated glomerular filtration rate 15-60 ml/min/1.73m2 or urinary albumin-to-creatinine ratio >30mg/g. As BRFSS does not include laboratory data, CKD for each person in the BRFSS was multiply imputed using a logistic regression model trained on NHANES data. A BMLM that effectively borrows information from neighboring counties was then fit to each imputed dataset to produce 10 sets of county-level estimates of CKD prevalence. These estimates were combined to obtain a final prevalence estimate for each county. **Results**: Estimated county-level prevalence of CKD ranged from 12.3 to 27.8% (median: 18.8%) in 2011 (see map). The standard deviation of these estimates ranged from 0.8 to 7%, and the coefficient of variation ranged from 5 to 32% of the estimate, suggesting good statistical precision. **Conclusions**: We believe this is the first attempt to estimate CKD prevalence in U.S. counties. Our approach yields estimates with improved statistical precision for small counties, and is being used to study geographic variation in CKD burden across the U.S. "
abstract_short = ""
event = " American Public Health Association Annual Meeting, 2015"
event_url = "https://apha.confex.com/apha/143am/webprogram/Paper325934.html"
location = "Chicago, IL"

selected = false
math = true

url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Presentation Link"
url = "https://apha.confex.com/apha/143am/webprogram/Paper325934.html"




# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"



+++
