+++
date = "2017-03-12T00:00:00"
title = "Improving the Efficiency of the Proportional Rates Model"
abstract = "In many biomedical studies, the outcome of interest is recurrent in nature. Examples include hospitalizations, infections, and treatment failures. It is often of interest to estimate the effect of covariates on the recurrent event process. Lin et al. (2000) proposed semiparametric models for mean and rate functions of the recurrent event counting process. These models are versatile in the sense that they permit arbitrary dependence structures among events within-subject. We propose weighting methods to improve the efficiency of parameter estimates for the proportional rates model. The intention is to weight subjects inversely with respect to within-subject variance, with the weights being constant over follow-up time. Through simulation studies, we demonstrate that substantial gains in efficiency can be achieved. The methods are applied to end-stage renal disease patients receiving hemodialysis. "
abstract_short = ""
event = " ENAR International Biometric Society Meeting, 2017"
event_url = "http://www.enar.org/meetings/spring2017/index.cfm"
location = "Washington, D.C."

selected = false
math = true

url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

#[[url_custom]]
#name = "Presentation Link"
#url = "https://apha.confex.com/apha/143am/webprogram/Paper325934.html"




# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"



+++
