+++
date = "2011-05-23T00:00:00"
title = "Implementation of a state Medicaid prescription cap policy: Is there an impact on beneficiaries’ medical services utilization and costs?"
abstract = "OBJECTIVES: On July 1, 2005, Mississippi (MS) Medicaid implemented a prescription cap policy restricting the number of prescriptions filled by a beneficiary during a month to five. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of this policy on overall medical services utilization and costs. METHODS: For the purpose of this study, a retrospective analysis of the 2004 –2006 MS Medicaid fee-for-service (FFS) administrative claims data was performed. The study included two data periods: 12-month pre- and post-prescription cap date of July 1, 2005. In both study periods (July 1, 2004 to June 30, 2005 [pre-cap] and July 1, 2005 to June 30, 2006 [post-cap]), beneficiaries who were 21 to 64 years of age during the 12-month period and were continuously enrolled for 10 months or more were identified. A final set of 89,110 (pre-cap cohort) and 87,518 (post-cap cohort) beneficiaries remained after applying the study inclusion and exclusion criteria. Using segmented regression analysis, trends in medical services utilization and cost per beneficiary per month (PBPM) were examined over the two-year period. RESULTS: In the 12-month period before the implementation of the cap, a decreasing trend in ER visits was observed (coefficient=0.0024, p<0.0001). The implementation of the cap resulted in an initial increase in the utilization of ER visits (coefficient = 0.0160, p < 0.0001; absolute difference = 0.0167 visits PBPM). When examining the ER visit costs, a decreasing month-to-month trend was observed in the 12-month pre-cap period (coefficient=2.4651, p<0.001). The implementation of the cap resulted in a decrease in ER visit costs (coefficient-20.554, p<0.0001). However, an increasing month-tomonth trend in ER visit costs was observed in the 12-month post-cap period (coefficient = 1.332, p = 0.0008). Results for hospitalization and office visit utilization and costs revealed no significant findings. CONCLUSIONS: There was an increase in ER visits utilization among MS Medicaid beneficiaries after the prescription cap implementation."
abstract_short = ""
event = " International Society of Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research - 16th Annual International Meeting, 2011"
event_url = "https://www.ispor.org/student/StudentPresentationsBaltimore052011.pdf"
location = "Baltimore, MD"

selected = false
math = true

url_pdf = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Poster Link"
url = "http://www.kylenull.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/ISPOR-2011_poster_Medicaid-prescription-cap.pdf"




# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
#[header]
#image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
#caption = "My caption :smile:"



+++
